Computer Networking

Source :-- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model

COmmonly oriented machine particluarly used for teaching educationa nd research

Cold war
1957 sputnik

Protocols

TCP
Transmisson Protocol
the data will reach its destination and not get corrupted ont he way

UDP - User data gram protocol
Do not care about the data reaching the destination 

HTTP- Hyper text transfer protocol
Used by web 

IP address
Packets
Modem sets Local ip address
Using the DHCP protocol

reserverd ports


Guided way for communication
and Unguided way for communication

me -> ISP -> UK 
UK -> ISP -> Me 

OSI model

apllication model

Presentation layer char to binary format -> tranlation changin the data
abstraction-> believes that the data is taken cared of at the layer below


Session
establish Session

Transport
segmenttation sequencce number
flow control
error control
check sum


Network
router 
subnet masking
best path djksitra

Data Link
logical addressing

Physical layer

TCP/IP Network portocol suit


APPLICATION layer
1. Users interact
2. Whatsapp Browsers
3. Where :Devices
4. Client Server Architecture
Peer to peer 

Protocols

ports :ephemeral ports


Smtp send email
pop download email


Suppose there is a company that has to transport some material to another company.

Physical layer
to transfer the material(data) we have to use a truck.
this truck is our physical layer.
there are many devices used in this layer which can all some sort devices which carry material(data) 
from one point to another

Data Link layer 
Now to reach from one source to destination the truck has to go across various check points.
in this check points it the checking of valid material(data) is done to make sure no material has been 
displaced and the another check of address to make sure the truck is on the right path is done.

	This two checks are :
	Medium access control (MAC) layer – responsible for controlling how devices in a network 
	gain access to a medium and permission to transmit data.

	Logical link control (LLC) layer – responsible for identifying and encapsulating network 
	layer protocols, and controls error checking and frame synchronization.

Network layer
In the previous section we have been talking about only one truck that is carrying our
data but often the data is more than just one truck.
So to make sure all the trucks reach the destination as fast as possible the routing is 
done in the Network layer

Transport layer
this layer is like the trucking company that under takes the shipment from one location to another
it chops the down the data into segmaents and gives it to the layers below it.

Session layer

Now lets talk about how does a trucking company decide to take data.
The trucking company will deliver the data as long as the contract is valid.
This is validity and connection check up is done by the session layer.

Presentation layer 
The Presentation Layer handles protocol conversion, data encryption, data decryption, data compression,
data decompression, incompatibility of data representation between OSs, and graphic commands.

The presentation layer is like the contractor who takes the orders from the company and translates the 
data into the information that is to be passed down below.


Application layer 
It is the user facing layer.

It is the compnay itself that is working with the trucking to send the data to another company.

